Some observations from tosi@ees2.oulu.fi about laml-general.el:
Not yet corrected or dealt with.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

`abs' is already a built-in function.

`caaar' ... `cdddr', `acons' and `butlast' are defined in `cl'.

`cddr' ... `cdar' are defined in `subr'.

`file-name-extension' is defined in `files'.

`mapcan' is defined in `cl-extra'.


Functions which Emacs defines with different names
--------------------------------------------------

`ask-user' is somewhat like `y-or-n-p' or `yes-or-no-p'.

`attach-hook' corresponds to `add-hook', which also handles
buffer-local hooks.

`call-unix-process' corresponds to `shell-command'.

`defvar1' corresponds to `defconst'.

`id-function1' corresponds to `identity'.

`make-unique' corresponds to `make-temp-name'.

`scroll-down-other-window' corresponds to
`scroll-other-window-down'.

`see-file' corresponds to `find-file-at-point', defined in
`ffap'.

`skip-through' and `skip-through-reverse' correspond to
`skip-chars-forward' and `skip-chars-backward', although the
parameters and return value are different.

`string-to-symbol' corresponds to `intern', unless you want to
skip spaces.


Bugs
----

`current-file' won't return nil because (file-name-nondirectory
nil) signals an error.

`defvar1' has a typo: `variable-decumentation' should be
`variable-documentation'.

`make-unique' has a race condition: another process may create
the file after the name has been chosen.

`show-info', `put-around-region' and `put-around-word' use &rest
rather than &optional.  This causes a them to check whether the
last parameter was given, not whether it is non-nil.

`sub-directories' does not work right if there is a directory
whose name begins with a space, because that gets sorted before
"." and "..".


Wishlist
--------

`collect-buffer' could use `get-buffer-create' or
`append-to-buffer'.

`count-words-buffer' and `count-words-region' could perhaps use
`shell-command-to-string'.

`current-directory' could use `default-directory', which is a
variable but sometimes also defined as a function by `dired-x'.

`mail-current-buffer' and `mail-region' could use (compose-mail)
rather than (mail).  `compose-mail' runs the mail package chosen
by the user.

`put-in' does not use the local variable `bp'.