LAML SchemeDoc
--------------

LAML SchemeDoc is able to extract interface documentation from Scheme source files, and to
present the documentation as HTML files.

The LAML SchemeDoc index facility can generate a browser, for convenient access to a
number of SchemeDoc manuals.

On a Scheme source file, SchemeDoc can be activated with Scheme > SchemeDoc > Run
SchemeDoc from the Emacs menu. Alternatively, just use M-x schemedoc on a buffer with a
scheme file (with extension scm).  The introductory comment of the Scheme source file may
contain SchemeDoc processing options, roughly corresponding to the attributes of the
manual-front-matters clause of the SchemeDoc XML language.

The schemedoc Emacs command is usually able to guess whether multi-semicolon or
documentation-mark documenting commenting style is being used. If not, you can enforce a
specific documentation commenting style by setting the Emacs Lisp variable
scheme-documentation-style to either multi-semicolon and documentation-mark (a
symbol). This can be done via a setq or via the LAML customization facility (M-x
laml-customize).

Use one of the three menu Insert-... menu items in Scheme > SchemeDoc > for insertion of
templates at Scheme source top level, at section level, and at definition level.

For better control of SchemeDoc, it is recommended to make an XML-in-LAML script which
controls SchemeDoc.  From Emacs, this is done by Tools > SchemeDoc > Make SchemeDoc
Manual... (or M-x make-laml-manual). In a similar way, you can make an index script with
Tools > SchemeDoc > Make SchemeDoc Index... (or M-x make-laml-manual-index).  The other
Tools > SchemeDoc menu entries serve as templates of documentation sections and entries.

From a Scheme interpreter, SchemeDoc can be activated by the call (schemedoc "file.scm") .
The requires, however, that LAML is loaded in Scheme.  See
http://www.cs.auc.dk/~scheme/index.html#processing for ways to start Scheme with LAML.


LAML SchemeDoc commenting conventions - multi-semicolon commenting style:

  Comments with 4, 3, and 2 initial semicolons are processed by SchemeDoc. 
  Comments with a single semicolon are not documentation comments.

  ;;;; Introduction comment. 4 semicolons. Only one such comments should appear. 
  ;;;; In the beginning of a file scheme file.

  ;;; Section comment. 3 semicolons. Starts a new section of Scheme definitions. 
  ;;; The first sentence becomes section title.
   
  ;; Interface comment. 2 semicolons.
  ;; A comment in front of a definition, which is part of the interface of the file. 


LAML SchemeDoc commenting conventions - documentation-mark commenting style:

  Comments with 3, 2 or 1 initial exclamation marks after at least a single semicolon.

  ;!!! Introduction comment. 4 semicolons. Only one such comments should appear. 
  ; In the beginning of a file scheme file.

  ;!! Section comment. 3 semicolons. Starts a new section of Scheme definitions. 
  ; The first sentence becomes section title.
   
  ;! Interface comment. 2 semicolons.
  ; A comment in front of a definition, which is part of the interface of the file. 

At the end of a documentation comment a number of internal tags can appear, such as .form,
.parameter.  Use the SchemeDoc templates (available via the Scheme > SchemeDoc menus) to
insert comments with internal tags. Delete the tags that are not needed.


For more information on SchemeDoc see http://www.cs.auc.dk/~normark/schemedoc/index.html
SchemeDoc is part of the LAML software package, downloadable from
http://www.cs.auc.dk/~normark/laml/

Kurt Nørmark,
Aalborg University.
normark@cs.aau.dk.

